# invoicer

A simple way to generate invoices, via a cli utility.

## installation

`npm install invoicer-cli -g`

## usage

### Step 1

Create a new folder where you want to store the json files and invoices that are generated.

`mkdir my-invoices && cd my-invoices`

### Step 2

Run:

`invoicer init`

This will prompt you for some basic information:

- Where to store the invoices (default is `cwd/invoices`)
- Where to store the json files (default is `cwd/store`)

This store the information within `cwd/.invoicer-config.json`:

```json
{
  "invoicesPath": "/path/to/invoices",
  "storePath": "/path/to/store"
}
```

### Step 3

Run:

`invoicer generate`

This will prompt the user with all the necessary information to generate an invoice step by step.

##### Options:

- `--from` (path) from company JSON file 
- `--to` (path) to company JSON file
- `--services` (path) services JSON file
- `-t, --template` html | csv | json or path to a custom template, see below. 
- `-o, --outfile` file to output the invoice (default config.invoicesPath)


### Custom

You can generate the seperate pieces of JSON seperately.

`invoicer generate [thing]`

**thing** can be:

- `invoice` Invoice details
- `from` company json
- `to` company json
- `services` services array
- `service.worked` //todo

JSON is output to stdout.

## templates

The default html template is a seperate [module](https://www.npmjs.com/package/invoicer-html-template).

TODO.. This isn't wired up to accept custom templates just yet.

A template needs to have two pieces of information:

 - format
 - render function

To specify your own template pass a file path as the -t option.

```js
module.exports = {
  format: 'html',
  render: function htmlTemplate(data, cb) {

    if(badThing) {
        return cb(new Error('oops'));
      }
      
      //render the template or something...
      var html = template.render(data);
      
      return cb(null, html);
  }
};
```

## Prompt tips

### Default values

In the following prompt:
`prompt: Date of Invoice:  (Todays date)`
The default value is todays date - generated by invoicer.

### Date values
Anything `new Date(..)` will accept is good.

